feat(docs): add emotion as an option for styling (#11356)
gatsbyjs/gatsby: docs/docs/emotion.md

---
title: Emotion
---

In this guide, we'll walk through setting up a site with the CSS-in-JS library [Emotion](https://emotion.sh).

> Emotion is a performant and flexible CSS-in-JS library. Building on many other CSS-in-JS libraries, it allows you to style apps quickly with string or object styles. It has predictable composition to avoid specificity issues with CSS. With source maps and labels, Emotion has a great developer experience and great performance with heavy caching in production.

Reviewer: This is good, but I would also recommend adding that it supports things like extracting critical styles _and_ rendering to CSS files, both of which using gatsby-plugin-emotion enable!

Author: Sure, I have added references to the suggested features.

First, open a new terminal window and run the following to create a new site:

```shell

> gatsby new emotion-tutorial https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby-starter-hello-world

Reviewer: ```suggestion
npx gatsby new emotion-tutorial https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby-starter-hello-world
```

(No way you could have known this; I need to update some documentation to reference moving off of the globally installed version!)

```

Second, we'll install the Gatsby plugin for Emotion.

```shell
npm install --save gatsby-plugin-emotion @emotion/core @emotion/styled
```

And then add it to your site's `gatsby-config.js`:

```javascript:title=gatsby-config.js
module.exports = {
  plugins: [`gatsby-plugin-emotion`],
}
```

> Then in your terminal run `gatsby develop` to start the Gatsby development server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then in your terminal run `npm start` to start the Gatsby development server.
```

Since we're recommending Node 8 now, we can move off of globals and use the local installed version.

Now let's create a sample Emotion page at `src/pages/index.js`:

```jsx:title=src/pages/index.js
import React from "react";
import styled from "@emotion/styled";
import { css } from "@emotion/core";

const Container = styled.div`
  margin: 3rem auto;
  max-width: 600px;
  display: flex;
  flex-direction: column;
  align-items: center;
  justify-content: center;
`

const UserWrapper = styled.div`
  display: flex;
  align-items: center;

>   margin: 0 auto 12px auto;

Reviewer: Can we avoid the short-hand?

Author: Sure, done.

  &:last-child {
    margin-bottom: 0;
  }
`

const Avatar = styled.img`

>   flex: 0 0 96px;

Reviewer: Avoid here as well, if possible!

Author: Done.

---
title: Emotion
---

In this guide, we'll walk through setting up a site with the CSS-in-JS library [Emotion](https://emotion.sh).

Emotion is a performant and flexible CSS-in-JS library. Building on many other CSS-in-JS libraries, it allows you to style apps quickly with string or object styles. It has predictable composition to avoid specificity issues with CSS. With source maps and labels, Emotion has a great developer experience and great performance with heavy caching in production.

[Server side rendering](https://emotion.sh/docs/ssr) works out of the box in Emotion. We can use React’s `renderToString` or `renderToNodeStream` methods directly without any extra configuration. `extractCritical` feature removes unused rules that were created with emotion and helps loading pages faster.

First, open a new terminal window and run the following to create a new site:

```shell
npx gatsby new emotion-tutorial https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby-starter-hello-world
```

> Second, we'll install the Gatsby plugin for Emotion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Second, we'll install the necessary dependencies for Emotion and Gatsby.
```

```shell
npm install --save gatsby-plugin-emotion @emotion/core @emotion/styled
```

> And then add it to your site's `gatsby-config.js`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And then add the plugin to your site's `gatsby-config.js`:
```
